readme.md, before:

# geo-lookups

A collection of data resources for handling small-area UK geography.

## [Boundary files](boundaries/)

A collection of geojson files for local authorities that give the boundaries of wards, LSOAs and MSOAs within that authority.

- [`boundaries/`](boundaries/)

## [`la_all_codes.csv`](la_all_codes.csv)

A record for each Lower Tier Local Authority that has existed at any time since 2011, with a lookup to the latest Local Authority codes.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.

Fields:

- `LADCD` - Local Authority code (includes areas that are no longer active)
- `LADNM` - Local Authority name (includes areas that are no longer active)
- `LADCD_ACTIVE` - Local Authority code (the most recent code that covers this area)
- `LADNM_ACTIVE` - Local Authority name (the most recent name that covers this area)
- `UTLACD` - Upper tier local authority code
- `UTLANM` - Upper tier local authority name
- `CAUTHCD` - Combined authority code
- `CAUTHNM` - Combined authority name
- `RGNCD` - Region code
- `RGNNM` - Region name
- `CTRYCD` - Country code
- `CTRYNM` - Country name
- `EWCD` - England and Wales code
- `EWNM` - England and Wales name
- `GBCD` - Great Britain code
- `GBNM` - Great Britain name
- `UKCD` - United Kingdom code
- `UKNM` - United Kingdom name
- `Current` - Whether the LA is currently active

The following columns are included for compatability but are deprecated
and can expected to be removed in future versions:

- `LAD20CD` - Local Authority (2020) code
- `LAD20NM` - Local Authority (2020) name

## [`utla_all_codes.csv`](utla_all_codes.csv)

A record for each Upper Tier Local Authority.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.

Fields:

- `UTLACD` - Upper tier local authority code
- `UTLANM` - Upper tier local authority name
- `CAUTHCD` - Combined authority code
- `CAUTHNM` - Combined authority name
- `RGNCD` - Region code
- `RGNNM` - Region name
- `CTRYCD` - Country code
- `CTRYNM` - Country name
- `EWCD` - England and Wales code
- `EWNM` - England and Wales name
- `GBCD` - Great Britain code
- `GBNM` - Great Britain name
- `UKCD` - United Kingdom code
- `UKNM` - United Kingdom name

## [`lsoa_la.csv`](lsoa_la.csv)

A record for every Lower Super Output Area from the 2011 census, along with a lookup to the latest Local Authority data.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.Uses "Data Zones" for Scotland and "Super Output Areas" for Northern Ireland.

Fields:

- `LSOA11CD` - Lower Super Output Area code
- `LSOA11NM` - Lower Super Output Area name
- `MSOA11CD` - Middle Super Output Area code
- `MSOA11NM` - Middle Super Output Area name
- `MSOA11HCLNM` - Middle Super Output Area name from [House of Commons Library](https://visual.parliament.uk/msoanames)
- `LAD17CD` - Local Authority (2017) code
- `LADCD_ACTIVE` - Local Authority code (the most recent code that covers this area)
- `LADNM_ACTIVE` - Local Authority name (the most recent name that covers this area)
- `UTLACD` - Upper tier local authority code
- `UTLANM` - Upper tier local authority name
- `CAUTHCD` - Combined authority code
- `CAUTHNM` - Combined authority name
- `RGNCD` - Region code
- `RGNNM` - Region name
- `CTRYCD` - Country code
- `CTRYNM` - Country name
- `EWCD` - England and Wales code
- `EWNM` - England and Wales name
- `GBCD` - Great Britain code
- `GBNM` - Great Britain name
- `UKCD` - United Kingdom code
- `UKNM` - United Kingdom name
- `TTWA11CD` - Travel to work area code
- `TTWA11NM` - Travel to work area name

The following columns are included for compatability but are deprecated
and can expected to be removed in future versions:

- `LAD20CD` - Local Authority (2020) code
- `LAD20NM` - Local Authority (2020) name

## [`lsoa_latlong.csv`](lsoa_latlong.csv)

A record for every Lower Super Output Area from the 2011 census, along with the latitude and longitude of the centre of the area.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.Uses "Data Zones" for Scotland and "Super Output Areas" for Northern Ireland. For England and Wales the latitude and longitude centers are population-weighted.

Fields:

- `lsoa11cd` - Lower Super Output Area code
- `longitude` - Longitude of central point
- `latitude` - Latitude of central point

## [`msoa_la.csv`](msoa_la.csv)

A record for every Middle Super Output Area from the 2011 census, along with a lookup to the latest Local Authority data.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales. Uses "Intermediate Zones" for Scotland and "Super Output Areas" for Northern Ireland.

Fields:

- `MSOA11CD` - Middle Super Output Area code
- `MSOA11NM` - Middle Super Output Area name
- `MSOA11HCLNM` - Middle Super Output Area name from [House of Commons Library](https://visual.parliament.uk/msoanames)
- `LAD17CD` - Local Authority (2017) code
- `LADCD_ACTIVE` - Local Authority code (the most recent code that covers this area)
- `LADNM_ACTIVE` - Local Authority name (the most recent name that covers this area)
- `UTLACD` - Upper tier local authority code
- `UTLANM` - Upper tier local authority name
- `CAUTHCD` - Combined authority code
- `CAUTHNM` - Combined authority name
- `RGNCD` - Region code
- `RGNNM` - Region name
- `CTRYCD` - Country code
- `CTRYNM` - Country name
- `EWCD` - England and Wales code
- `EWNM` - England and Wales name
- `GBCD` - Great Britain code
- `GBNM` - Great Britain name
- `UKCD` - United Kingdom code
- `UKNM` - United Kingdom name

The following columns are included for compatability but are deprecated
and can expected to be removed in future versions:

- `LAD20CD` - Local Authority (2020) code
- `LAD20NM` - Local Authority (2020) name

## [`msoa_latlong.csv`](msoa_latlong.csv)

A record for every Middle Super Output Area from the 2011 census, along with the latitude and longitude of the centre of the area.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.Uses "Intermediate Zones" for Scotland and "Super Output Areas" for Northern Ireland. For England and Wales the latitude and longitude centers are population-weighted.

Fields:

- `msoa11cd` - Lower Super Output Area code
- `longitude` - Longitude of central point
- `latitude` - Latitude of central point

## [`ward_all_codes.csv`](ward_all_codes.csv)

A record for every Ward in the UK that has existed since 2015, along with a lookup to the latest Local Authority that it would be part of. Lookups are based on a lookup from the Local Authority that the ward belonged to at the time it existed to the latest Local Authorities. So these could be incorrect in a few cases.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.

Fields:

- `WDCD` - Ward code
- `WDNM` - Ward name
- `LADCD` - Local Authority code from source data
- `LADNM` - Local Authority name from source data
- `SOURCEFILE` - Source year for the ward data
- `LAD17CD` - Local Authority (2017) code
- `LADCD_ACTIVE` - Local Authority code (the most recent code that covers this area)
- `LADNM_ACTIVE` - Local Authority name (the most recent name that covers this area)
- `UTLACD` - Upper tier local authority code
- `UTLANM` - Upper tier local authority name
- `CAUTHCD` - Combined authority code
- `CAUTHNM` - Combined authority name
- `RGNCD` - Region code
- `RGNNM` - Region name
- `CTRYCD` - Country code
- `CTRYNM` - Country name
- `EWCD` - England and Wales code
- `EWNM` - England and Wales name
- `GBCD` - Great Britain code
- `GBNM` - Great Britain name
- `UKCD` - United Kingdom code
- `UKNM` - United Kingdom name

The following columns are included for compatability but are deprecated
and can expected to be removed in future versions:

- `LAD20CD` - Local Authority (2020) code
- `LAD20NM` - Local Authority (2020) name

## [`ward_latlong.csv`](ward_latlong.csv)

A record for every Ward in the UK that has existed since 2015, along with the latitude and longitude of the centre of the area.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.

Fields:

- `wdcd` - Ward code
- `longitude` - Longitude of central point
- `latitude` - Latitude of central point

## [`cauth_all_codes.csv`](cauth_all_codes.csv)

A record for each Combined Authority.

Covers England

Fields:

- `CAUTHCD` - Combined authority code
- `CAUTHNM` - Combined authority name
- `RGNCD` - Region code
- `RGNNM` - Region name
- `CTRYCD` - Country code
- `CTRYNM` - Country name
- `EWCD` - England and Wales code
- `EWNM` - England and Wales name
- `GBCD` - Great Britain code
- `GBNM` - Great Britain name
- `UKCD` - United Kingdom code
- `UKNM` - United Kingdom name

## [`rgn_all_codes.csv`](rgn_all_codes.csv)

A record for each English region.

Covers England

Fields:

- `RGNCD` - Region code
- `RGNNM` - Region name
- `CTRYCD` - Country code
- `CTRYNM` - Country name
- `EWCD` - England and Wales code
- `EWNM` - England and Wales name
- `GBCD` - Great Britain code
- `GBNM` - Great Britain name
- `UKCD` - United Kingdom code
- `UKNM` - United Kingdom name

## [`ctry_all_codes.csv`](ctry_all_codes.csv)

A record for each Country.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.

Fields:

- `CTRYCD` - Country code
- `CTRYNM` - Country name
- `EWCD` - England and Wales code
- `EWNM` - England and Wales name
- `GBCD` - Great Britain code
- `GBNM` - Great Britain name
- `UKCD` - United Kingdom code
- `UKNM` - United Kingdom name

## Data sources

Data is sourced from the [ONS Geoportal](http://geoportal.statistics.gov.uk/) and used under the Open Government Licence v3.0. 

Other data sources:

- [Scottish Data Zone Centroids](https://data.gov.uk/dataset/8aabd120-6e15-41bf-be7c-2536cbc4b2e5/data-zone-centroids-2011)
- [Scottish Intermediate Zone Centroids](https://data.gov.uk/dataset/df24c284-f34d-4a2f-88fe-27e3a3b9ac90/intermediate-zone-centroids-2011)
- [House of Commons Library MSOA names](https://visual.parliament.uk/msoanames)
- [Northern Ireland Super Output Areas](https://www.nisra.gov.uk/support/geography/northern-ireland-super-output-areas)

Commit message:

add lookup from orgid to gss codes

readme.md, after:

# geo-lookups

A collection of data resources for handling small-area UK geography.

## [Boundary files](boundaries/)

A collection of geojson files for local authorities that give the boundaries of wards, LSOAs and MSOAs within that authority.

- [`boundaries/`](boundaries/)

## [`la_all_codes.csv`](la_all_codes.csv)

A record for each Lower Tier Local Authority that has existed at any time since 2011, with a lookup to the latest Local Authority codes.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.

Fields:

- `LADCD` - Local Authority code (includes areas that are no longer active)
- `LADNM` - Local Authority name (includes areas that are no longer active)
- `LADCD_ACTIVE` - Local Authority code (the most recent code that covers this area)
- `LADNM_ACTIVE` - Local Authority name (the most recent name that covers this area)
- `UTLACD` - Upper tier local authority code
- `UTLANM` - Upper tier local authority name
- `CAUTHCD` - Combined authority code
- `CAUTHNM` - Combined authority name
- `RGNCD` - Region code
- `RGNNM` - Region name
- `CTRYCD` - Country code
- `CTRYNM` - Country name
- `EWCD` - England and Wales code
- `EWNM` - England and Wales name
- `GBCD` - Great Britain code
- `GBNM` - Great Britain name
- `UKCD` - United Kingdom code
- `UKNM` - United Kingdom name
- `Current` - Whether the LA is currently active

The following columns are included for compatability but are deprecated
and can expected to be removed in future versions:

- `LAD20CD` - Local Authority (2020) code
- `LAD20NM` - Local Authority (2020) name

## [`utla_all_codes.csv`](utla_all_codes.csv)

A record for each Upper Tier Local Authority.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.

Fields:

- `UTLACD` - Upper tier local authority code
- `UTLANM` - Upper tier local authority name
- `CAUTHCD` - Combined authority code
- `CAUTHNM` - Combined authority name
- `RGNCD` - Region code
- `RGNNM` - Region name
- `CTRYCD` - Country code
- `CTRYNM` - Country name
- `EWCD` - England and Wales code
- `EWNM` - England and Wales name
- `GBCD` - Great Britain code
- `GBNM` - Great Britain name
- `UKCD` - United Kingdom code
- `UKNM` - United Kingdom name

## [`lsoa_la.csv`](lsoa_la.csv)

A record for every Lower Super Output Area from the 2011 census, along with a lookup to the latest Local Authority data.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.Uses "Data Zones" for Scotland and "Super Output Areas" for Northern Ireland.

Fields:

- `LSOA11CD` - Lower Super Output Area code
- `LSOA11NM` - Lower Super Output Area name
- `MSOA11CD` - Middle Super Output Area code
- `MSOA11NM` - Middle Super Output Area name
- `MSOA11HCLNM` - Middle Super Output Area name from [House of Commons Library](https://visual.parliament.uk/msoanames)
- `LAD17CD` - Local Authority (2017) code
- `LADCD_ACTIVE` - Local Authority code (the most recent code that covers this area)
- `LADNM_ACTIVE` - Local Authority name (the most recent name that covers this area)
- `UTLACD` - Upper tier local authority code
- `UTLANM` - Upper tier local authority name
- `CAUTHCD` - Combined authority code
- `CAUTHNM` - Combined authority name
- `RGNCD` - Region code
- `RGNNM` - Region name
- `CTRYCD` - Country code
- `CTRYNM` - Country name
- `EWCD` - England and Wales code
- `EWNM` - England and Wales name
- `GBCD` - Great Britain code
- `GBNM` - Great Britain name
- `UKCD` - United Kingdom code
- `UKNM` - United Kingdom name
- `TTWA11CD` - Travel to work area code
- `TTWA11NM` - Travel to work area name

The following columns are included for compatability but are deprecated
and can expected to be removed in future versions:

- `LAD20CD` - Local Authority (2020) code
- `LAD20NM` - Local Authority (2020) name

## [`lsoa_latlong.csv`](lsoa_latlong.csv)

A record for every Lower Super Output Area from the 2011 census, along with the latitude and longitude of the centre of the area.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.Uses "Data Zones" for Scotland and "Super Output Areas" for Northern Ireland. For England and Wales the latitude and longitude centers are population-weighted.

Fields:

- `lsoa11cd` - Lower Super Output Area code
- `longitude` - Longitude of central point
- `latitude` - Latitude of central point

## [`msoa_la.csv`](msoa_la.csv)

A record for every Middle Super Output Area from the 2011 census, along with a lookup to the latest Local Authority data.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales. Uses "Intermediate Zones" for Scotland and "Super Output Areas" for Northern Ireland.

Fields:

- `MSOA11CD` - Middle Super Output Area code
- `MSOA11NM` - Middle Super Output Area name
- `MSOA11HCLNM` - Middle Super Output Area name from [House of Commons Library](https://visual.parliament.uk/msoanames)
- `LAD17CD` - Local Authority (2017) code
- `LADCD_ACTIVE` - Local Authority code (the most recent code that covers this area)
- `LADNM_ACTIVE` - Local Authority name (the most recent name that covers this area)
- `UTLACD` - Upper tier local authority code
- `UTLANM` - Upper tier local authority name
- `CAUTHCD` - Combined authority code
- `CAUTHNM` - Combined authority name
- `RGNCD` - Region code
- `RGNNM` - Region name
- `CTRYCD` - Country code
- `CTRYNM` - Country name
- `EWCD` - England and Wales code
- `EWNM` - England and Wales name
- `GBCD` - Great Britain code
- `GBNM` - Great Britain name
- `UKCD` - United Kingdom code
- `UKNM` - United Kingdom name

The following columns are included for compatability but are deprecated
and can expected to be removed in future versions:

- `LAD20CD` - Local Authority (2020) code
- `LAD20NM` - Local Authority (2020) name

## [`msoa_latlong.csv`](msoa_latlong.csv)

A record for every Middle Super Output Area from the 2011 census, along with the latitude and longitude of the centre of the area.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.Uses "Intermediate Zones" for Scotland and "Super Output Areas" for Northern Ireland. For England and Wales the latitude and longitude centers are population-weighted.

Fields:

- `msoa11cd` - Lower Super Output Area code
- `longitude` - Longitude of central point
- `latitude` - Latitude of central point

## [`ward_all_codes.csv`](ward_all_codes.csv)

A record for every Ward in the UK that has existed since 2015, along with a lookup to the latest Local Authority that it would be part of. Lookups are based on a lookup from the Local Authority that the ward belonged to at the time it existed to the latest Local Authorities. So these could be incorrect in a few cases.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.

Fields:

- `WDCD` - Ward code
- `WDNM` - Ward name
- `LADCD` - Local Authority code from source data
- `LADNM` - Local Authority name from source data
- `SOURCEFILE` - Source year for the ward data
- `LAD17CD` - Local Authority (2017) code
- `LADCD_ACTIVE` - Local Authority code (the most recent code that covers this area)
- `LADNM_ACTIVE` - Local Authority name (the most recent name that covers this area)
- `UTLACD` - Upper tier local authority code
- `UTLANM` - Upper tier local authority name
- `CAUTHCD` - Combined authority code
- `CAUTHNM` - Combined authority name
- `RGNCD` - Region code
- `RGNNM` - Region name
- `CTRYCD` - Country code
- `CTRYNM` - Country name
- `EWCD` - England and Wales code
- `EWNM` - England and Wales name
- `GBCD` - Great Britain code
- `GBNM` - Great Britain name
- `UKCD` - United Kingdom code
- `UKNM` - United Kingdom name

The following columns are included for compatability but are deprecated
and can expected to be removed in future versions:

- `LAD20CD` - Local Authority (2020) code
- `LAD20NM` - Local Authority (2020) name

## [`ward_latlong.csv`](ward_latlong.csv)

A record for every Ward in the UK that has existed since 2015, along with the latitude and longitude of the centre of the area.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.

Fields:

- `wdcd` - Ward code
- `longitude` - Longitude of central point
- `latitude` - Latitude of central point

## [`cauth_all_codes.csv`](cauth_all_codes.csv)

A record for each Combined Authority.

Covers England

Fields:

- `CAUTHCD` - Combined authority code
- `CAUTHNM` - Combined authority name
- `RGNCD` - Region code
- `RGNNM` - Region name
- `CTRYCD` - Country code
- `CTRYNM` - Country name
- `EWCD` - England and Wales code
- `EWNM` - England and Wales name
- `GBCD` - Great Britain code
- `GBNM` - Great Britain name
- `UKCD` - United Kingdom code
- `UKNM` - United Kingdom name

## [`rgn_all_codes.csv`](rgn_all_codes.csv)

A record for each English region.

Covers England

Fields:

- `RGNCD` - Region code
- `RGNNM` - Region name
- `CTRYCD` - Country code
- `CTRYNM` - Country name
- `EWCD` - England and Wales code
- `EWNM` - England and Wales name
- `GBCD` - Great Britain code
- `GBNM` - Great Britain name
- `UKCD` - United Kingdom code
- `UKNM` - United Kingdom name

## [`ctry_all_codes.csv`](ctry_all_codes.csv)

A record for each Country.

Covers England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.

Fields:

- `CTRYCD` - Country code
- `CTRYNM` - Country name
- `EWCD` - England and Wales code
- `EWNM` - England and Wales name
- `GBCD` - Great Britain code
- `GBNM` - Great Britain name
- `UKCD` - United Kingdom code
- `UKNM` - United Kingdom name

## [`la_orgid_to_gss.csv`](la_orgid_to_gss.csv)

A lookup between the codes for Local Authorities from the (now defunct) registers of
Local Authorities held by gov.uk with the GSS codes for the areas they represent.

Fields:


- `org_id` - Council identifier
- `name` - Name of the Council
- `normalised_name` - Area name standardised
- `gss_code` - GSS Code for the area
- `area_name` - Name of the area from GSS record
- `area_type` - Entity type of the area
- `active` - Whether it's a currently active area

## Data sources

Data is sourced from the [ONS Geoportal](http://geoportal.statistics.gov.uk/) and used under the Open Government Licence v3.0. 

Other data sources:

- [Scottish Data Zone Centroids](https://data.gov.uk/dataset/8aabd120-6e15-41bf-be7c-2536cbc4b2e5/data-zone-centroids-2011)
- [Scottish Intermediate Zone Centroids](https://data.gov.uk/dataset/df24c284-f34d-4a2f-88fe-27e3a3b9ac90/intermediate-zone-centroids-2011)
- [House of Commons Library MSOA names](https://visual.parliament.uk/msoanames)
- [Northern Ireland Super Output Areas](https://www.nisra.gov.uk/support/geography/northern-ireland-super-output-areas)
